
Final Remarks
*************


Join the discussion
===================

You can get in contact with Cuckoo's developers and users through the
official mailing list kindly provided by The Honeynet Project or
through IRC on the official #cuckoobox channel.


Contribute
==========

We often get contacted by people willing to contribute. Most of the
times they consist of unexperiences users. Other times they never end
what they started or promised.

There are a lot of ways to contribute to an open source project, not
only developing it but also donating or sponsoring hardware for
testing, reporting bug or suggesting new features to improve software,
donating money to fund costs like hosting, or simply publishing Cuckoo
around the web. Any kind of help is really appreciated and help Cuckoo
project.

Cuckoo is a simple but still somewhat complex software, therefore we
are very careful on who and how can contribute actively developing the
software. This doesn't mean that we don't accept any, but before
coming to us please make sure that you are seriously committed into
contributing and that you have the required knowledge and experience
using Cuckoo and understanding how it works.

The best way to get involved is to *Join the discussion* and start
writing code by your own: patches, new modules, new analysis packages.
Reflect on what you believe Cuckoo lacks on and do it.


Donations
=========

Cuckoo is software released freely to the public and developed during
spare time by volunteers only. If you enjoy it and want to see it kept
on being developed and maintained, please consider making a donation.

We receive small donations through Flattr.

If you want to make a larger donation or provide a different form of
support (such as hardware, connectivity, hosting, anything) you can
contact us at ``donations at cuckoobox dot org``.


People
======

Cuckoo Sandbox is an open source project result of the efforts and
contributions of a lot of people who enjoyed volunteering some of
their time for a greater good :).


Developers
----------

   +-------------------------------+----------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | Name                          | Role                 | Contact                           |
   +===============================+======================+===================================+
   | Claudio "*nex*" Guarnieri     | Lead Developer       | ``nex at cuckoobox dot org``      |
   +-------------------------------+----------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | Dario Fernandes               | Developer            | ``dario at cuckoobox dot org``    |
   +-------------------------------+----------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | Alessandro "*jekil*" Tanasi   | Developer            | ``alessandro at tanasi dot it``   |
   +-------------------------------+----------------------+-----------------------------------+


Contributors
------------

   * Ryan Sommers _(contributed with the concept of the DLL analysis
     package)


Acknowledgements
----------------

   * Felix Leder _(for mentoring and believing in the project in the
     first place)

   * Kjell Christian Nilsen _(for providing valuable feedback and
     several feature suggestions)

   * Mark Schloesser _and Angelo dell'Aera _(for helping on Python
     matters :P)

   * Georg Wicherski _(for supporting the project and giving it a home
     at first place)

   * Carsten Willems _(for the precious suggestions provided)

   * The Honeynet Project _(for supporting the project)

   * The Shadowserver Foundation _(for supporting the project)

   * Everyone using Cuckoo _(for giving a sense to all of this)
