
Requirements
************

Before proceeding on configuring Cuckoo, you'll need to install some
required software and libraries.


Installing Python libraries
===========================

Cuckoo host components are completely written in Python, therefore
make sure to have an appropriate version installed. For current
release Python 2.6 or 2.7 are preferred.

Install Python on Ubuntu:

   $ sudo apt-get install python

Cuckoo makes use of several libraries which include:

   * Magic: for detecting file types.

   * Dpkt: for extracting relevant information from PCAP files.

   * Mako: for rendering the HTML reports and the web interface.

On Ubuntu you can install all of them with the following command:

   $ sudo apt-get install python-magic python-dpkt python-mako

On different distributions refer to the provided official homepage to
retrieve other installers or sources.

Other optional libraries, which do not affect Cuckoo's execution,
include:

   * Pyssdeep: for calculating ssdeep fuzzy hash of files.


Installing VirtualBox
=====================

At current stage, Cuckoo heavily relies on VirtualBox as it's unique
virtualization engine.

Despite being often packaged by all GNU/Linux distributions, you are
encouraged to download and install the latest version from the
official website. The reason behind this choice is that packaged
versions of VirtualBox (called OSE) generally have some limitations or
adjustments in order to meet requirements of the GNU GPL license.

You can get the proper package for your distribution at the official
download page.

The installation of VirtualBox is not in purposes of this
documentation, if you are not familiar with it please refer to the
official documentation.


Installing Tcpdump
==================

By default Cuckoo makes use of VirtualBox's embedded network tracing
functionalities, but in some cases or some network configurations you
might need to adopt an external network sniffer.

If you intend to use VirtualBox's own network trace, you can skip this
section.

The best choice for packet interception is tcpdump of course.

Install it on Ubuntu:

   $ sudo apt-get install tcpdump

Tcpdump requires root privileges, but since you don't want Cuckoo to
run as root you'll have to set specific Linux capabilities to the
binary:

   $ sudo setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin=eip /usr/sbin/tcpdump

You can verify the results of last command with:

   $ getcap /usr/sbin/tcpdump
   /usr/sbin/tcpdump = cap_net_admin,cap_net_raw+eip
